Love is an emotion that we all yearn for. From the day we are born, we crave love. The little baby who arrives in this world is unaware of things. The only thing that they understand is love. The relationship of a mother with the child is said to be the strongest. The mother’s love is purest because a mother does not have any expectations. It is selfless love as it only has the feeling of giving.

As we grow up, we make friends, and we have relatives, neighbours and many more people in our lives. But, what is the one thing that draws or repels us from a person? It is his nature. A person with a kind and loving nature is loved by all.

Importance of Love
We create love out of strong, personal bonds. Love gives us the assurance that we are not alone in the world. In a larger aspect, love runs the world around us. On a smaller scale, we survive as children because our parents loved and cared for us. Love can tell a lot about ourselves. When we love someone, we accept them, forgive their small mistakes and patiently listen to them. Our preferences, tastes, morality, thought processes and instinctive feelings also change.

The feeling of love keeps us alive. We start enjoying our lives. We feel motivated and inspired all the time. We think of doing better in our lives and strive for the best. We fall in love with life and start living in the present moment. This makes us realise that we must be thankful for whatever we have in life.

Society and Love
A society or community functions well when they have the feeling of togetherness and lovingness. A society in which everyone hates each other and can’t see the development of others can never make progress. So, for the progress of any society or nation, it is very important that people love each other. Love will bind people of different castes, races, sex, community, religion, area, etc. in one thread of togetherness. Love is the deepest and most meaningful of all sentiments.

Basic Elements of Love
Love has basic three elements. The first one is understanding. People are said to love each other when they are willing to provide mutual understanding. When things do not go in our favour, it requires sacrifice. Trust is the second element. People must build trust in relationships to make stronger bonds. Cooperation is the last one. People must cooperate and help each other to achieve their goals.

Conclusion
Love is the lubricant of life, and without love, the machinery of life will overheat from friction and ‘seize up’; but love is no substitute for the other qualities which go to the making of the whole of human existence.

Did you find the essay on love useful for your studies? Do let us know your view in the comment section. Keep Learning, and don’t forget to download the BYJU’S App for more interesting study videos.

